# Data-Science-Challenge

In this assessment, I carried out a variety of data science tasks on a dataset which contains weekly sales records for a major retailer between 2010 and 2012. This assessment was a great way for me to use skills I have learned in data cleaning, data visualisation, data analysis and statistical modelling while learning many more. Each of the Rmd file where I wrote the code, and the pdf report which combines both my code, my general findings and answers to each question, is included in this repository.

I attempted each question, and I am quite pleased with what I have achieved in the time-frame. However, I believe I could do even better if I had more time. A summary of the things I would improve if I had more time include:

1. For data cleaning, inspect each individual case where the number of sales was a negative number, and visualise the number of sales in the times around it for the same store and department. The way I imagine I could do this is by visualising each store and department (like in 2a except subsetting by store) and clearly showing where the negative value resides (for example using a big red cross). This probably would give an even better idea of how to better model the sales trend for that specific store and department (despite the negative value) instead of replacing it with the value of the time right before. Judging by how reasonable the time series graphs looked, I think this doesn't have too much of an effect but it could help.
2. For my store sizes and department visualisations - consider if there is a simpler way to present these (that allows to fit them in one graph), without compromising on useful information. I think it is good to include violin plots to give a sense of distribution, however I also think it would be nice to have a way to present things in one plot - which I am sure I'd work out with a little more exploring. Also see if any other insights are uncovered by grouping these by month.
3. Investigate holidays further - maybe there are some holidays that are safe to include that weren't already included in the 'IsHoliday' flag?
4. Try different approaches to prediction, even though it seems that the Holt-Winters approach does an okay job. A Random Forest, or a Neural Network approach to the same data while also considering non-temporal variables may improve its predictive power, which would give us more confidence in the answer that we give to the marketing department.
